Blog post for DRA updates in 1.36 (#54567)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2026/dra-136-update.md

**Device Taints (Beta)**

Just as you can taint a Kubernetes Node, you can now apply taints directly to specific DRA
devices.
[Device Taints and Tolerations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#device-taints-and-tolerations)
empower cluster administrators to manage hardware more effectively. You can taint faulty
devices to prevent them from being allocated to standard claims, or reserve specific hardware
for dedicated teams, specialized workloads, and experiments. Ultimately, only Pods with
matching tolerations are permitted to claim these tainted devices.

**Device Binding Conditions (Beta)**

To improve scheduling reliability, the Kubernetes scheduler can now use the
[Binding Conditions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#device-taints-and-tolerations)
feature to delay committing a Pod to a Node until its required external resources—such as attachable
devices or FPGAs—are fully prepared. By explicitly modeling resource readiness, this
prevents premature assignments that can lead to Pod failures, ensuring a much more robust
and predictable deployment process.

> 

Author: @harche Could you take a look at this? Currently the description of this feature gets into quite a bit more detail than the other descriptions and I think some of it can be left to the documentation.

> 

Reviewer: thanks @mortent , does this look better ?https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/54567#discussion_r3075000668

> 

Author: Yeah, it is better. I have included your proposal with some small adjustments.

that expand what DRA can do.

**ResourceClaim Support for Workloads**

To optimize large-scale AI/ML workloads that rely on strict topological scheduling, the 
[ResourceClaim Support for Workloads](add_link_here)
feature enables Kubernetes to seamlessly manage shared resources across massive sets
of Pods. By associating ResourceClaims or ResourceClaimTemplates with PodGroups,
this feature eliminates previous scaling bottlenecks, such as the limit on the
number of pods that can share a claim, and removes the burden of manual claim
management from specialized orchestrators.

**DRA for Native Resources**

Why should DRA only be for external accelerators? In v1.36, we are introducing the first
iterations of using the DRA API to manage Kubernetes native resources (like CPU and
Memory). By bringing CPU and memory allocation under the DRA umbrella with the DRA
[Native Resources](add_link_here)
feature, users can leverage DRA's advanced placement, NUMA-awareness, and prioritization
semantics for standard compute resources, paving the way for incredibly fine-grained
performance tuning.

**DRA Resource Availability Visibility**

> One of the most requested features from cluster administrators has been better visibility

Reviewer 2: I'd like to improve this section to mention the actual API name (`ResourcePoolStatusRequest`), the feature gate, and the alpha status — consistent with how other features in this post reference their API objects and maturity level.

ref: docs PR is https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/54456

```suggestion

One of the most requested features from cluster administrators has been better visibility
into hardware capacity. The new
[ResourcePoolStatusRequest](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#resource-pool-status)
API (alpha, behind the `DRAResourcePoolStatus` feature gate) allows you to query
the availability of devices in DRA resource pools. By creating a
ResourcePoolStatusRequest object, you get a point-in-time snapshot of device counts
— total, allocated, available, and unavailable — for each pool managed by a given
driver. This enables better integration with dashboards and capacity planning tools.
```

into hardware capacity. The new
[Resource Availability Visibility](add_link_here)
feature introduces robust mechanisms to query and expose the total capacity, allocated
usage, and available pool of DRA resources across the cluster. This unlocks better
integration with dashboards and capacity planning tools.

**Device Allocation Ordering through Lexicographical Ordering**

The Kubernetes scheduler has been updated to evaluate devices using lexicographical
ordering based on resource pool and ResourceSlice names. This change empowers drivers
to proactively influence the scheduling process, leading to improved throughput and
more optimal scheduling decisions. To support this capability, the ResourceSlice
controller toolkit now automatically generates names that reflect the exact device
ordering specified by the driver author.

> 

Author: @everpeace Could you take a look at updating the description to align a bit more with the other features, ref my previous comment?

> 

Reviewer 3: It's in now, right?

> 

Author: This is included in the PR. As you mentioned in https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/54567#discussion_r3078077177 we should try to focus on what is possible with the feature rather than describing the details. This is one of the sections I think we should update.

## What’s next?

This cycle introduced a wealth of new DRA features, and the momentum continues.
Our focus remains on progressing existing features toward beta and stable releases
while enhancing DRA's performance, scalability, and reliability. Additionally,
integrating DRA with Workload-Aware and Topology-Aware Scheduling will be a key
priority over the coming releases.

## Getting involved

A good starting point is joining the WG Device Management 
[Slack channel](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C0409NGC1TK) and
[meetings](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qxI87VqGtgN7EAJlqVfxx86HGKEAc2A3SKru8nJHNkQ/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.tgg8gganowxq),
which happen at US/EU and EU/APAC friendly time slots.

> Not all enhancement ideas are tracked as issues yet, so come talk to us if you wantto help or have some ideas yourself!

Author: Fixed.

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes v1.36: More Drivers, New Features, and the Next Era of DRA"
slug: dra-136-updates
draft: true
date: XXXX-XX-XX
author: >
  The DRA team
---

Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) has fundamentally changed how we handle hardware
accelerators and specialized resources in Kubernetes. In the v1.36 release, DRA
continues to mature, bringing a wave of feature graduations, critical usability
improvements, and new capabilities that extends the flexibility of DRA to native
resources like memory and CPU, and support for ResourceClaims in PodGroups.

We have also seen significant momentum in driver availability. Both the
[NVIDIA GPU](https://github.com/NVIDIA/k8s-dra-driver-gpu)
and Google TPU DRA drivers are being transferred to the Kubernetes project, joining the
[DRANET](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/dranet)

> driver that was added last year.

Reviewer 3: You can link to https://www.kubernetes.dev/community/community-groups/wg/device-management/

If we want to publish something like https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/wg-device-management/tree/main/device-ecosystem for end users, we can. Maybe a (separate)
blog article?

It's not a good fit for the official Kubernetes documentation; it has a bit too much about vendors and offerings. But a neutral blog article could be OK.

> driver that was added last year.

Author: @lmktfy sounds like you think we should avoid mentioning the specific drivers here? I've updated this to focus on the increased availability of drivers managing different types of hardware, but without mentioning any specific vendors or drivers.

several highly anticipated features have graduated to Beta and Stable.

**Prioritized List (Stable)**

Hardware heterogeneity is a reality in most clusters. With the
[Prioritized List](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#prioritized-list)
feature, you can confidently define fallback preferences when requesting
devices. Instead of hardcoding a request for a specific device model, you can specify an
ordered list of preferences (e.g., "Give me an H100, but if none are available, fall back
to an A100"). The scheduler will evaluate these requests in order, drastically improving
scheduling flexibility and cluster utilization.

**Extended Resource Support (Beta)**

As DRA becomes the standard for resource allocation, bridging the gap with legacy systems
is crucial. The DRA
[Extended Resource](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#extended-resource)
feature allows users to request resources via traditional extended resources on a Pod.
This allows for a gradual transition to DRA, meaning application developers and

> operators are not forced to immediately migrate their workloads to the ResourceClaim

Author: I've rewritten this section a bit. Let me know if you think it looks better now.

> API.

Author: Section has been updated.

**Partitionable Devices (Beta)**

Hardware accelerators are powerful, and sometimes a single workload doesn't need an
entire device. The
[Partitionable Devices](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#partitionable-devices)
feature, provides native DRA support for carving physical hardware into smaller,
logical instances (such as Multi-Instance GPUs). This allows administrators to

> safely and efficiently share expensive accelerators across multiple Pods.

Reviewer 4: I think the key here is that it is _dynamic_, while safe and efficient. So the partitioning can dynamically change based on workload demands

Author: Agree. I've reworked the section a little bit.

**Device Taints (Beta)**

Just as you can taint a Kubernetes Node, you can now apply taints directly to specific DRA
devices.
[Device Taints and Tolerations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#device-taints-and-tolerations)
empower cluster administrators to manage hardware more effectively. You can taint faulty
devices to prevent them from being allocated to standard claims, or reserve specific hardware
for dedicated teams, specialized workloads, and experiments. Ultimately, only Pods with
matching tolerations are permitted to claim these tainted devices.

**Device Binding Conditions (Beta)**

To improve scheduling reliability, the Kubernetes scheduler can now use the

> [Binding Conditions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#device-taints-and-tolerations)

Author: No, it is not. I've fixed the links to not have the `https://kubernetes.io` prefix.

prevents premature assignments that can lead to Pod failures, ensuring a much more robust
and predictable deployment process.

**Resource Health Status (Beta)**

Knowing when a device has failed or become unhealthy is critical for workloads running on
specialized hardware. With
[Resource Health Status](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#device-health-monitoring),
Kubernetes now exposes device health information directly in the Pod Status through the
`allocatedResourcesStatus` field. When a DRA driver detects that an allocated device
has become unhealthy, it reports this back to the kubelet, which surfaces it in each
container's status.

In 1.36, the feature graduates to beta (enabled by default) and adds an optional `message`
field providing human readable context about the health status, such as error details or
failure reasons. DRA drivers can also configure per device health check timeouts,
allowing different hardware types to use appropriate timeout values based on their
health reporting characteristics. This gives users and controllers crucial visibility
to quickly identify and react to hardware failures.

> ## New Features

Reviewer 5: https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/5304

This enhancement was add in 1.36, I wonder if this section should contain a sub-section for it.

cc @pohly

Reviewer 6: Let's add it. Can you suggest something?

Reviewer 5: Sure, added a suggestion here: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/54567/changes#r3076822230

Author: Added

Beyond stabilizing existing capabilities, v1.36 introduces foundational new features
that expand what DRA can do.

**ResourceClaim Support for Workloads**

To optimize large-scale AI/ML workloads that rely on strict topological scheduling, the 
[ResourceClaim Support for Workloads](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#workload-resource-claims)
feature enables Kubernetes to seamlessly manage shared resources across massive sets
of Pods. By associating ResourceClaims or ResourceClaimTemplates with PodGroups,
this feature eliminates previous scaling bottlenecks, such as the limit on the
number of pods that can share a claim, and removes the burden of manual claim
management from specialized orchestrators.

**DRA for Native Resources**

Why should DRA only be for external accelerators? In v1.36, we are introducing the first
iterations of using the DRA API to manage Kubernetes native resources (like CPU and
memory). By bringing CPU and memory allocation under the DRA umbrella with the DRA

> [Native Resources](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#node-allocatable-resources)

Author: I think I used the name from the KEP, but I see that https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/54598 uses the term node allocatable resources. @pravk03 I assume node allocatable resources is the preferred name here? And do we spell that with a hyphen or not (the docs seems inconsistent on this)?

> [Native Resources](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#node-allocatable-resources)

Reviewer 7: Yes, we have renamed this to node allocatable resources. 

Following the convention in the [Node Allocatable](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/reserve-compute-resources/#node-allocatable) and [Resource Management](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) documentation, we can omit the hyphen. I’ll update the the KEP and docs to keep it consistent.

DRA can represent device attributes as typed lists (`ints`, `bools`, `strings`, and `versions`), not
just scalar values. This helps model real hardware topology, such as devices that belong
to multiple PCIe roots or NUMA domains.

This feature also extends ResourceClaim constraint behavior to work naturally
with both scalar and list values: `matchAttribute` now checks for a non-empty
intersection, and `distinctAttribute` checks for pairwise disjoint values.
It also introduces `includes()` function in DRA CEL, which lets device selectors keep working
more easily when an attribute changes between scalar and list representations.

**Deterministic Device Selection via Lexicographical Sorting**

The Kubernetes scheduler has been updated to evaluate devices using lexicographical
ordering based on resource pool and ResourceSlice names. This change empowers drivers
to proactively influence the scheduling process, leading to improved throughput and
more optimal scheduling decisions. To support this capability, the ResourceSlice
controller toolkit now automatically generates names that reflect the exact device
ordering specified by the driver author.

> ## What’s next?

Author: Good point. I've added a small section for this.

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes v1.36: More Drivers, New Features, and the Next Era of DRA"
slug: dra-136-updates
draft: true
date: XXXX-XX-XX
author: >
  The DRA team
---

> Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) has fundamentally changed how we handle hardware

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) has fundamentally changed how platform administrators can handle hardware
```

If "we" means "all the contributors to DRA" then it's best not to have it also mean "anyone using Kubernetes", within one article.

accelerators and specialized resources in Kubernetes. In the v1.36 release, DRA
continues to mature, bringing a wave of feature graduations, critical usability
improvements, and new capabilities that extend the flexibility of DRA to native
resources like memory and CPU, and support for ResourceClaims in PodGroups.

We have also seen significant momentum in driver availability. Both the

> [NVIDIA GPU](https://github.com/NVIDIA/k8s-dra-driver-gpu)

Reviewer 3: This link is stale, and the transfer happened before the v1.36 release. Let's update and switch to past tense.

Author: I've rewritten this section ref https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/54567#discussion_r3089301905

and Google TPU DRA drivers are being transferred to the Kubernetes project, joining the
[DRANET](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/dranet)
driver that was added last year.

Whether you are managing massive fleets of GPUs, need better handling of failures,
or simply looking for better ways to define resource fallback options, the upgrades
to DRA in 1.36 have something for you. Let's dive into the new features and graduations!

## Feature graduations

The community has been hard at work stabilizing core DRA concepts. In Kubernetes 1.36,
several highly anticipated features have graduated to Beta and Stable.

> **Prioritized List (Stable)**

Reviewer 3: I would use an actual heading here; also, use sentence case, eg
```markdown
### Prioritized list (stable) {#prioritized-list}
```

and similarly for other headings

Author: Fixed.

Hardware heterogeneity is a reality in most clusters. With the

> [Prioritized List](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#prioritized-list)

Reviewer 3: Idiomatically, don't use title case for the names of features. Outside of a hyperlink we use italics; within a hyperlink they are optional.

Author: I've updated the PR. I have left the capitalization of the first word in the name of the feature, but I can update that if we prefer to just have all lower-case.

**Partitionable Devices (Beta)**

Hardware accelerators are powerful, and sometimes a single workload doesn't need an
entire device. The
[Partitionable Devices](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#partitionable-devices)
feature, provides native DRA support for dynamically carving physical hardware into smaller,
logical instances (such as Multi-Instance GPUs) based on workload demands. This allows
administrators to safely and efficiently share expensive accelerators across multiple Pods.

**Device Taints (Beta)**

Just as you can taint a Kubernetes Node, you can now apply taints directly to specific DRA
devices.
[Device Taints and Tolerations](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#device-taints-and-tolerations)
empower cluster administrators to manage hardware more effectively. You can taint faulty
devices to prevent them from being allocated to standard claims, or reserve specific hardware
for dedicated teams, specialized workloads, and experiments. Ultimately, only Pods with
matching tolerations are permitted to claim these tainted devices.

**Device Binding Conditions (Beta)**

> To improve scheduling reliability, the Kubernetes scheduler can now use the

Reviewer 3: Watch out for "now"; was this not possible in v1.35?

If it was, even behind a feature gate, we should reword.

Author: I had been using "now" in this way in several places and reviewing it now I don't think it really adds much. So I've removed it from this location and some other places.

[Binding Conditions](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#device-taints-and-tolerations)
feature to delay committing a Pod to a Node until its required external resources—such as attachable
devices or FPGAs—are fully prepared. By explicitly modeling resource readiness, this
prevents premature assignments that can lead to Pod failures, ensuring a much more robust
and predictable deployment process.

**Resource Health Status (Beta)**

Knowing when a device has failed or become unhealthy is critical for workloads running on
specialized hardware. With
[Resource Health Status](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#device-health-monitoring),

> Kubernetes now exposes device health information directly in the Pod Status through the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Kubernetes can expose device health information directly in the Pod `.status`, through an entry within the
```
?

Author: I've made some changes to this section.

> `allocatedResourcesStatus` field. When a DRA driver detects that an allocated device

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`.status.allocatedResourcesStatus` field.

When a compatible DRA driver detects that an allocated device
```

Author: I have removed the specific mentions of the fields here, as it seems to go into more details than we need to in the blog post.

has become unhealthy, it reports this back to the kubelet, which surfaces it in each
container's status.

> In 1.36, the feature graduates to beta (enabled by default) and adds an optional `message`

Reviewer 3: (for this article, only a nit)

Remember that this is a post release blog: 
```suggestion
In 1.36, the feature has graduated to beta (and is now enabled by default). There was
a small change from alpha, adding an optional `message`
```

Author: I made some adjustments here. Mentioning that it is about 1.36 seems unnecessary since the blog post is about the 1.36 release and that it is in beta is given from the header. All the features promoted to beta in 1.36 will be enabled by default, so I don't think we need to mention that in the description of every feature. We could potentially mention that in the first paragraph in the "Feature graduations" section.

field providing human readable context about the health status, such as error details or
failure reasons. DRA drivers can also configure per device health check timeouts,
allowing different hardware types to use appropriate timeout values based on their
health reporting characteristics. This gives users and controllers crucial visibility

> to quickly identify and react to hardware failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Resource Health Status (Beta)**

Knowing when a device has failed or become unhealthy is critical for workloads running on
specialized hardware. With
[Resource Health Status](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#device-health-monitoring),
Kubernetes now exposes device health information directly in Pod Status, giving users and
controllers crucial visibility to quickly identify and react to hardware failures. In 1.36,
the feature graduated to beta, adding support for human readable
health status messages, making it easier to diagnose issues without diving into driver logs.
```

Reviewer 3: I recommend writing the graduation as if it was in the past (which it will be). Also, watch out for implying that beta → enabled by default. Some things go to beta as initially opt-in.

Reviewer: Thanks @lmktfy, updated.

## New Features

Beyond stabilizing existing capabilities, v1.36 introduces foundational new features
that expand what DRA can do.

**ResourceClaim Support for Workloads**

To optimize large-scale AI/ML workloads that rely on strict topological scheduling, the 

> [ResourceClaim Support for Workloads](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#workload-resourceclaims)

Reviewer 3: Try to describe what is possible (rather than summarizing the enhancement).

eg
```markdown
People using Kubernetes in their platform may have large AI/ML workloads
and rely on strict _topological scheduling_ (matching Pods to run across multiple nodes
with firm constraints, such as making an entire rack of compute available
along with interconnects).
DRA provides an [integration](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#workload-resourceclaims)
with the Workload API, so that you can get near seamless management of
infrastructure resources, even across very large sets of Pods.

By associating ResourceClaims or ResourceClaimTemplates with the PodGroup API
(also new in Kubernetes v1.35),
this integration eliminates previous scaling bottlenecks, such as the limit on the
number of Pods that can share a claim, and
removes the burden of custom or manual claim
management from specialized orchestrators.
```

Notice how I didn't mention the feature other than by hyperlinking to its docs. I would consider also mentioning the feature gate on this one.

feature enables Kubernetes to seamlessly manage shared resources across massive sets
of Pods. By associating ResourceClaims or ResourceClaimTemplates with PodGroups,
this feature eliminates previous scaling bottlenecks, such as the limit on the
number of pods that can share a claim, and removes the burden of manual claim
management from specialized orchestrators.

**DRA for Native Resources**

Why should DRA only be for external accelerators? In v1.36, we are introducing the first

> iteration of using the DRA API to manage Kubernetes native resources (like CPU and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
iteration of using the DRA APIs to manage 
_node allocatable_ infrastructure resources (such as CPU and
```

"Infrastructure resource" to disambiguate from HTTP resources, BTW.

feature, users can leverage DRA's advanced placement, NUMA-awareness, and prioritization
semantics for standard compute resources, paving the way for incredibly fine-grained
performance tuning.

**DRA Resource Availability Visibility**

One of the most requested features from cluster administrators has been better visibility
into hardware capacity. The new
[DRAResourcePoolStatus](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#resource-pool-status)
feature allows you to query the availability of devices in DRA resource pools. By creating a
`ResourcePoolStatusRequest` object, you get a point-in-time snapshot of device counts
— total, allocated, available, and unavailable — for each pool managed by a given
driver. This enables better integration with dashboards and capacity planning tools.

**List Types for Attributes**

With
[List Types for Attributes](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#list-type-attributes),
DRA can represent device attributes as typed lists (`ints`, `bools`, `strings`, and `versions`), not
just scalar values. This helps model real hardware topology, such as devices that belong
to multiple PCIe roots or NUMA domains.

> This feature also extends ResourceClaim constraint behavior to work naturally

Reviewer 3: I recommend: talk about what Kubernetes does more than what the feature does.

Something like:
```markdown
In v1.36, ResourceClaim constraint evaluation has changed (behind a feature gate)
to work better with scalar and list values:
`matchAttribute` now checks for a non-empty
intersection, and `distinctAttribute` checks for pairwise disjoint values.

Kubernetes v1.36 also introduces an `includes()` function in CEL, that lets device selectors keep working
more easily when an attribute changes between scalar and list representations.
(The `includes()` function is only available in DRA
contexts for expression evaluation).
```

I avoided "naturally". People reading this probably won't have a sense of the natural way for ResourceClaim evaluation to work; that's different from how people use "naturally" outside of a more jargon-y context.

Reviewer 8: I proposed your edit here: https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/54567#discussion_r3093823041

with both scalar and list values: `matchAttribute` now checks for a non-empty
intersection, and `distinctAttribute` checks for pairwise disjoint values.
It also introduces `includes()` function in DRA CEL, which lets device selectors keep working
more easily when an attribute changes between scalar and list representations.

> **Deterministic Device Selection via Lexicographical Sorting**

Reviewer 3: Just call this deterministic device selection; it's snappier.

The Kubernetes scheduler has been updated to evaluate devices using lexicographical
ordering based on resource pool and ResourceSlice names. This change empowers drivers
to proactively influence the scheduling process, leading to improved throughput and
more optimal scheduling decisions. To support this capability, the ResourceSlice
controller toolkit now automatically generates names that reflect the exact device
ordering specified by the driver author.

> ## What’s next?

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Discoverable Device Metadata in Containers**

Workloads running on with DRA devices often need to discover details about
their allocated devices, such as PCI bus addresses or network
interface configuration, without querying the Kubernetes API. With
[DRA Device Metadata](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#device-metadata),
Kubernetes defines a standard protocol for how DRA drivers expose device
attributes to containers as versioned JSON files at well-known paths. Drivers
built with the
[DRA kubelet plugin library](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/dynamic-resource-allocation/kubeletplugin)
get this behavior transparently; they just provide the metadata and the
library handles file layout, CDI bind-mounts, versioning, and lifecycle. This
gives applications a consistent, driver-independent way to discover and
consume device metadata, eliminating the need for custom controllers or
looking up the of ResourceSlice objects to get metadata via attributes.

## What’s next?
```

> This cycle introduced a wealth of new Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) features,

Reviewer 3: I would call it a release, not a cycle: we're writing for the public.

and the momentum is only building. As we look ahead, our roadmap focuses on maturing
existing features toward beta and stable releases while hardening DRA’s performance,
scalability, and reliability. A key priority over the coming cycles will be deep

> integration with Workload-Aware and Topology-Aware Scheduling.

Reviewer 3: I might write:
```suggestion
integration with _workload-aware scheduling_ and with _topology-aware scheduling_.
```

> A big goal for us is to migrate the entire community to DRA, and we want

Reviewer 3: This seems far fetched. Do we mean that we want everyone using accelerators to use DRA, or do we mean that behind even simple workloads, CPU and memory resources become allocated to nodes and Pods dynamically?

Without being prescriptive, let's try to help readers guess what we really mean.

Author: Yeah, I agree it doesn't seem right. I've updated it to be clearer that we are talking about the transition from Device Plugin to DRA. Open to suggestion on this.

you involved. Whether you are currently maintaining a driver or are just beginning
to explore the possibilities, your input is vital. Partner with us to shape the next
generation of resource management. Reach out today to collaborate on development,
share feedback, or start building your first DRA driver.

## Getting involved

A good starting point is joining the WG Device Management 
[Slack channel](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C0409NGC1TK) and

> [meetings](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qxI87VqGtgN7EAJlqVfxx86HGKEAc2A3SKru8nJHNkQ/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.tgg8gganowxq),

Reviewer 3: Rather than those two links, consider linking to [WG Device Management](https://www.kubernetes.dev/community/community-groups/wg/device-management/).

Those existing links aren't useful to the public reading the article.

Author: I'm not sure about this. It seems like the two links we reference directly here are the most relevant information from the [WG Device Management](https://www.kubernetes.dev/community/community-groups/wg/device-management/) page. It seems better to just provide the links here directly?

Reviewer 3: For these links:
- https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C0409NGC1TK is just a login page for most visitors
- ~https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qxI87VqGtgN7EAJlqVfxx86HGKEAc2A3SKru8nJHNkQ/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.tgg8gganowxq is either a login page or a Forbidden page, depending on whether they have a Google identity~ this one is public, but we may not want it to be quite so visible.

Linking to the WG works for the public (our target audience).

Reviewer 3: Worried that https://www.kubernetes.dev/community/community-groups/wg/device-management/ doesn't mention how to get Slack access? That could get a PR update even after this is merged.

> which happen at US/EU and EU/APAC friendly time slots.

Reviewer 3: You might mean Americas rather than "US", and "EMEA" rather than EU. We like to look inclusive.

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes v1.36: More Drivers, New Features, and the Next Era of DRA"
slug: dra-136-updates
draft: true
date: 2026-04-27
author: >
  The DRA team
---

> Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA) has fundamentally changed how platform administrators handle hardware

Reviewer 3: nit: could hyperlink to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/

To improve scheduling reliability, the Kubernetes scheduler can use the
[Binding conditions](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#device-binding-conditions)
feature to delay committing a Pod to a Node until its required external resources—such as attachable
devices or FPGAs—are fully prepared. By explicitly modeling resource readiness, this
prevents premature assignments that can lead to Pod failures, ensuring a much more robust
and predictable deployment process.

### Resource health status (beta) {#device-health-monitoring}

Knowing when a device has failed or become unhealthy is critical for workloads running on
specialized hardware. With
[Resource health status](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#device-health-monitoring),
Kubernetes expose device health information directly in the Pod status, giving users and
controllers crucial visibility to quickly identify and react to hardware failures. The
feature includes support for human-readable health status messages, making it
significantly easier to diagnose issues without the need to dive into complex driver logs.

> ## New Features

Reviewer 3: nit:
```suggestion
## New features
```

[Resource pool status](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#resource-pool-status)
feature allows you to query the availability of devices in DRA resource pools. By creating a
`ResourcePoolStatusRequest` object, you get a point-in-time snapshot of device counts
— total, allocated, available, and unavailable — for each pool managed by a given
driver. This enables better integration with dashboards and capacity planning tools.

### List types for attributes {#list-type-attributes}

With
[List types for attributes](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/dynamic-resource-allocation/#list-type-attributes),
DRA can represent device attributes as typed lists (`ints`, `bools`, `strings`, and `versions`), not
just scalar values. This helps model real hardware topology, such as devices that belong
to multiple PCIe roots or NUMA domains.

This feature also extends ResourceClaim constraint behavior to work naturally
with both scalar and list values: `matchAttribute` checks for a non-empty
intersection, and `distinctAttribute` checks for pairwise disjoint values.
It also introduces `includes()` function in DRA CEL, which lets device selectors keep working

> more easily when an attribute changes between scalar and list representations.

Reviewer 8: as @lmktfy proposed ([here](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/54567#discussion_r3078129781))

```suggestion
In v1.36, ResourceClaim constraint evaluation has changed (behind a feature gate)
to work better with scalar and list values: 
`matchAttribute` now checks for a non-empty intersection, 
and `distinctAttribute` checks for pairwise disjoint values.

Kubernetes v1.36 also introduces an `includes()` function in CEL,
that lets device selectors keep working more easily when an attribute
changes between scalar and list representations.
(The `includes()` function is only available in DRA
contexts for expression evaluation).
```

Author: Updated, but I made some small adjustments to avoid mentioning v1.36 twice.
